# bom-examples

BOM (Bill of Materials) with Maven Aggregator Project examples.

All Maven submodules inherit their version from the parent project.  
The maven-release-plugin manages and maintains these versions.

There's no a bom module, the project pom that functions as a BOM.

You shouldn't use the example directly, just reference it to do yourself project.

## simple-style (Flat Hierarchy)

In this style, all relevant Maven modules are listed directly under the parent project.  
This structure is straightforward and suitable for projects with a smaller number of modules or when modules have a relatively flat relationship without strong thematic groupings.

```text
Project
|-- module A (Maven Submodule)
|-- module B (Maven Submodule)
```

## spring-boot-style (Grouped Hierarchy)

In this style, Maven modules are organized into logical subdirectories (folders), often grouped by feature, layer (e.g., API, core, data)
, or component.  
This approach enhances clarity and manageability for larger, more complex projects by grouping related modules together, similar to how the Spring Boot project itself is structured.

```text
Project
|-- feature1 (Logical Grouping Folder)
    |-- module A (Maven Submodule)
|-- feature2 (Logical Grouping Folder)
    |-- module B (Maven Submodule)
```

(Note: The "Folders" like feature1, feature2 are primarily organizational directories in the filesystem and do not correspond to Maven modules themselves.)

## Version Management and Update

The project's version is managed consistently across the parent and all submodules using the maven-release-plugin. This ensures that all 
modules share the same version, which is derived from the parent project's POM.  
To update the project version during the build lifecycle, you can use the following approach:

```bash
mvn clean release:prepare
mvn clean release:perform
```

This version string can be generated by your CI/CD pipeline (such as Jenkins, GitHub Actions, or GitLab CI/CD) based on release 
strategies, tags, or other logic, or it can be provided manually as part of the build command.  
For more maven-release-plugin usage https://maven.apache.org/maven-release/maven-release-plugin/usage.html

## Usage

Use the Project artifact as parent

e.x.

```xml
    <parent>        
        <groupId>io.github.zlishaojiez</groupId>
        <artifactId>project</artifactId>
        <!-- The version of the artifact-->
        <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
    </parent>

    <groupId>com.company</groupId>
    <artifactId>service</artifactId>    
    <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>

```

or import it in DependencyManagement when the service project need another parent

```xml
    <groupId>com.company</groupId>
    <artifactId>service</artifactId>    
    <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <dependencyManagement>
        <dependencies>
            <dependency>
                <groupId>io.github.zlishaojiez</groupId>
                <artifactId>project</artifactId>
                <!-- The version of the artifact-->
                <version>1.0.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
                <type>pom</type>
                <scope>import</scope> 
            </dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </dependencyManagement>
```
